blog/when-to-take-a-break.md, before:

---
path: /blog/when-to-take-a-break
date: '2019-07-20'
title: When To Take A Break
---
Taking a break is something so trivial  you wouldn't think its something that I struggle with, but it is. 

There are several reasons as to why we should take a break but opt not to. Such as not wanting to lose our focus, particularly if the thing we are working on is hard to keep make sense of. As well as wanting more of that sense of accomplishment from each task you complete. Or simply just approaching a deadline when you are unsure as to how much work you are yet to do, I often overwork (but sometimes under-work) myself. 

The bad thing is that is hard to tell when you are overworking yourself Also some people can work for longer compared to others. 

Burnout and procrastination are both (non immediate) signs of overworking yourself. 

When I feel overworked, I tend to make more mistakes than usual, this can result in frustration, which may lead to doubt, and/or possibly sleepiness. 

When I am doing a complicated task that is really testing my brain for an extensive period of time, it often results a "sore brain" or a headache. 

I mentioned that sometimes we feel we need to "work harder", while hard work is important, its also important to realise that you can only work so hard, after you reach this point your productivity is more likely to decrease. 

One reason I overwork myself is because my program is difficult to make sense of, and I worry that if I stop working I will not know what to do when I return. Thankfully documenting my code in someway such as comments has helped reduce this "return anxiety", and I make a note of the task that I previously done, as well as the task that I intend on completing when I return (some times the fresh eyes makes things easier). 

Another technique you could do is the pomodoro technique, that is to work for 25 minutes, and take a 5 minute break, repeat this for certain amount of times (such as 4). You do not need to follow this technique exactly, and instead should find out what works for you, you might even find that some days you want to do more pomdoro sessions, other days do not feel shameful in doing less. 

Personally I feel it is important to "break correctly", for example, if your brain is sore from programming, then completing a Sudoku puzzle probably is not the best idea, and instead you should have a [healthy] snack or do some exercise (such as a walk) or both. 

The conclusion of this blog post is that you should not rely on "crunch" times, and instead be able to break your work to ensure you are not overworking yourself, meaning that you should have enough energy reserved for when events are happening as intended. Thanks for reading and I hope this helps increase your productivity as well as improve your overall quality of life.

Commit message:

Update Blog “when-to-take-a-break”

blog/when-to-take-a-break.md, after:

---
path: /blog/when-to-take-a-break
date: '2019-07-20'
title: When To Take A Break
---
Taking a break is something so trivial  you wouldn't think its something that I struggle with, but it is. 

There are several reasons as to why we should take a break but opt not to. Such as not wanting to lose our focus, particularly if the thing we are working on is hard to keep make sense of. As well as wanting more of that sense of accomplishment from each task you complete. Or simply just approaching a deadline when you are unsure as to how much work you are yet to do, I often overwork (but sometimes under-work) myself. 

The bad thing is that is hard to tell when you are overworking yourself Also some people can work for longer compared to others. 

Burnout and procrastination are both (non immediate) signs of overworking yourself. 

When I feel overworked, I tend to make more mistakes than usual, this can result in frustration, which may lead to doubt, and/or possibly sleepiness. 

When I am doing a complicated task that is really testing my brain for an extensive period of time, it often results a "sore brain" or a headache. 

I mentioned that sometimes we feel we need to "work harder", while hard work is important, its also important to realise that you can only work so hard, after you reach this point your productivity is more likely to decrease. 

One reason I overwork myself is because my program is difficult to make sense of, and I worry that if I stop working I will not know what to do when I return. Thankfully documenting my code in someway such as comments has helped reduce this "return anxiety", and I make a note of the task that I previously done, as well as the task that I intend on completing when I return (some times the fresh eyes makes things easier). 

Remember that taking a break whilst trying to fix a bug is not a sign of giving up. I have solved so many bugs simply from taking a break. 

Another technique you could do is the pomodoro technique, that is to work for 25 minutes, and take a 5 minute break, repeat this for certain amount of times (such as 4). You do not need to follow this technique exactly, and instead should find out what works for you, you might even find that some days you want to do more pomdoro sessions, other days do not feel shameful in doing less. 

Personally I feel it is important to "break correctly", for example, if your brain is sore from programming, then completing a Sudoku puzzle probably is not the best idea, and instead you should have a [healthy] snack or do some exercise (such as a walk) or both, socialising or mediate might help too, so that when you return to your work you are able to perform better than you would had had you kept working too much. 

The conclusion of this blog post is that you should not rely on "crunch" times, and instead be able to break your work to ensure you are not overworking yourself, meaning that you should have enough energy reserved for when events are happening as intended. Thanks for reading and I hope this helps increase your productivity as well as improve your overall quality of life.
